424 NCTL Testing Documentation (#452)
casper-network/docs: source/docs/casper/dapp-dev-guide/nctl-test.md

## Getting Started with NCTL

Prior to testing a `Deploy` through NCTL, you should have the following steps accomplished:

1) [Installed the Casper client](../workflow/setup.md)

2) [Completed writing a Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust.md)

3) [Tested the Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/testing.md) using the Casper testing framework

4) [Setup NCTL](../dapp-dev-guide/setup-nctl.md) on your system

## NCTL Verification Prior to Testing

Prior to attempting an NCTL test, you must verify that your local NCTL instance started correctly. Run the following command to view your current node status:

```
nctl-status
```

You should see five nodes `RUNNING` and five `STOPPED`. Further, verify that the node and user information propagated within the *casper-node/utils/assets* directory. Each node and user should have the associated `Keys` necessary to interact with the network.

## Installing the Smart Contract

> NCTL effectively simulates a live Casper network. The process for sending a `Deploy` to an NCTL-based network is therefore similar to doing so on a live network.

Reviewer: I would move these 2 sentences in the intro.

> This document assumes that you setup your NCTL network using the standard settings in a directory called */casper/*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document assumes that you setup your NCTL network using the standard settings in a directory called */casper/*.
```

* The **path** to your `Deploy` that you wish to send to the NCTL network. This will appear in our example put-deploy as `--session-path <PATH>` and will require you to define the path to your specific `Deploy` Wasm.

* The **node address** for a node on your NCTL network. In this example, we are using the node at `http://localhost:11101/rpc`. On a live network, nodes will use port `7777`. This will appear in our example put-deploy as `--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc`.

The command to send your `Deploy` should look similar to the following:

```
casper-client put-deploy --chain-name "casper-net-1" --secret-key ~/casper/casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/secret_key.pem --payment-amount 2500000000 --session-path <PATH> --node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc
```

Which will return something similar to the following information:

```
{
    "id": 4824893960188648146,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "api_version": "1.0.0",
        "deploy_hash": "8e6309cc37bc58d8fedc1094ee1bd264a636d39fc0e05b5e1d72d98f7b6faf13"
    }
}
```

## Verifying Deploy Execution

> The previous command sent the `Deploy` to the NCTL network but verifying execution prior to continuing will avoid wasted time. The returned value includes the `deploy_hash`, which will allow you to query the `Deploy`'s status. This will return either an error message in the event of failure, or the `Deploy` details if it succeeds.
> 
> To query the `Deploy`'s status, you will pass both the `deploy_hash` and the same `node-address` from above using the following command:
> 

Reviewer: Suggestion to re-arrange this a bit:
```suggestion
The previous command sent the `Deploy` to the NCTL network, but we recommend verifying deploy execution before continuing. The `deploy_hash` received in the response allows you to query the `Deploy`'s status. 

To query the `Deploy`'s status, you will pass both the `deploy_hash` and the same `node-address` from above using the following command. This will return either an error message in the event of failure or the `Deploy` details if it succeeds.
```

# Testing Smart Contracts with NCTL

NCTL effectively simulates a live Casper network. The process for sending a `Deploy` to an NCTL-based network is therefore similar to doing so on a live network.

Testing `Deploys` prior to sending them to a Casper network ensures that they operate as intended. When working in an environment that requires payment for execution, errors and inefficiencies quickly add up. To this end, Casper provides several layers of testing to identify and rectify any errors. After [writing your smart contract](/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust.md) and testing it [using the provided framework](/dapp-dev-guide/testing.md), NCTL serves as the next step in the process. While testing is entirely optional, it should be considered a best practice to avoid paying for the execution of faulty code.

## Getting Started with NCTL

Prior to testing a `Deploy` through NCTL, you should have the following steps accomplished:

1) [Completed writing a Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust.md)

2) [Tested the Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/testing.md) using the Casper testing framework

> 3) [Setup NCTL](../dapp-dev-guide/setup-nctl.md) on your system

Reviewer 2: `setup-nctl.md` has no mention that you must clone down the client (it only mentions the launcher).  Should be added there with a note to match the client to the version of node checked out.

ie. testing contract against current dev

```
casper-node: dev 
casper-client-rs: dev
```

If there is no matching branch for `casper-client-rs` use the closest version. 

ie.
```
casper-node: 1.4.6
casper-client-rs: 1.4.5 (Note: this is a tag on main they will need to checkout)
```

Without the client being present in the same directory as node, `nctl-compile` will fail.

> 3) [Setup NCTL](../dapp-dev-guide/setup-nctl.md) on your system

Reviewer 2: `setup-nctl.md` has no mention that you must clone down the client (it only mentions the launcher).  Should be added there with a note to match the client to the version of node checked out.

ie. testing contract against current dev

```
casper-node: dev 
casper-client-rs: dev
```

Without the client being present in the same directory as node, `nctl-compile` will fail.

## NCTL Verification Prior to Testing

Prior to attempting an NCTL test, you must verify that your local NCTL instance started correctly. Run the following command to view your current node status:

```
nctl-status
```

You should see five nodes `RUNNING` and five `STOPPED`. Further, verify that the node and user information propagated within the *casper-node/utils/assets* directory. Each node and user should have the associated `Keys` necessary to interact with the network.

## Installing the Smart Contract

> 

Reviewer 3: 'set up' instead of 'setup'?

This document assumes that you setup your NCTL network using the standard settings in a directory called */casper/*.

You will need the following information to use the `put-deploy` command:

* The **chain name**, in this case `casper-net-1`. This will appear in our example put-deploy as `--chain-name "casper-net-1"`

* The **secret key** of the account sending the `Deploy`. For this example, we are using node-1 as the sender. The secret key file can be found at *casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/secret_key.pem*. In our example put-deploy, this will appear as `--secret-key /casper/casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/secret_key.pem`. If your Deploy is more complex and requires multiple accounts, NCTL also establishes multiple users for testing.

* The **payment amount** in motes, which should be sufficient to avoid an 'Out of Gas' error. The payment amount will appear in our example put-deploy as `--payment-amount 2500000000`. **NCTL tests are not an accurate representation of potential gas costs on a live network. Please see our [note about gas prices](dapp-dev-guide/sending-deploys/#a-note-about-gas-price).**

> 

Reviewer 3: 'note about gas prices' link is not working for me - it yields 'page not found' error with url 'http://localhost:3001/dapp-dev-guide/nctl-test/dapp-dev-guide/sending-deploys/#a-note-about-gas-price'

* The **path** to your `Deploy` that you wish to send to the NCTL network. This will appear in our example put-deploy as `--session-path <PATH>` and will require you to define the path to your specific `Deploy` Wasm.

* The **node address** for a node on your NCTL network. In this example, we are using the node at `http://localhost:11101/rpc`. On the Casper Mainnet or Testnet, nodes will use port `7777`. This will appear in our example put-deploy as `--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc`.

The command to send your `Deploy` should look similar to the following code snippet:

:::note

Use of the `$(get_path_to_client)` command assumes that you are operating in an activated NCTL envrionment.

:::

```
$(get_path_to_client) put-deploy \
--chain-name "casper-net-1" \
--secret-key /casper/casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/secret_key.pem \
--payment-amount 2500000000 \
--session-path <PATH> \
--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Isn't it better to re-arrange the content of 'put-deploy' as in the below links (add the code snippet first and then the field explanations under it)
- https://docs.casperlabs.io/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust/#locked-contracts
- https://docs.casperlabs.io/workflow/delegate/#sending-the-delegation-deploy

```
$(get_path_to_client) get-account-info \
--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc \
--public-key /casper/casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/public_key.pem
```

This command will return information pertaining to the account, including the `NamedKeys`. The `ContractHash` of the contract to be tested will appear here. The process of calling the contract is similar to that of installing it, as they are both accomplished through sending a `Deploy`. In this instance, you will need the following information:

* The **node address**, entered in this instance using `--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc`

* The **chain name**, entered in this instance using `--chain-name "casper-net-1"`

* The **payment amount** for this `Deploy` in motes, which may need to be adjusted depending on cost. In this instance, we will use `--payment-amount 500000000`

> * The **session path**, defining the location of the Wasm bearing file for the `Deploy`. It appears in our example as `--session-path <PATH>` but you must define the path to your specific file.

Reviewer 3: 'defining' --> 'defines'

* Any **session arguments** specific to the contract that you are testing. Multiple instances of `--session-arg` may be used as necessary to provide values to the contract, including the `ContractHash` you acquired above. In the example below, you will see a demonstration of the `ContractHash` as a session argument as `--session-arg "contract_key:key='hash-8c13aaeef50ae7f447ee21276965c31cfa45c4ea3abb03d35d078cdd6a40e4a'"`

> 

Reviewer 3: Same suggestion as above comment to adjust the content.

- https://docs.casperlabs.io/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust/#locked-contracts
- https://docs.casperlabs.io/workflow/delegate/#sending-the-delegation-deploy

```
$(get_path_to_client) put-deploy \
--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc \
--chain-name "casper-net-1" \
--payment-amount 500000000 \
--session-path <PATH> \
--session-arg "contract_key:key='hash-8c13aaeef50ae7f447ee21276965c31cfa45c4ea3abb03d35d078cdd6a40e4a'"
```

## Verifying Correct Contract Behavior

> After calling your installed contract, you can verify that the contract behaved as expected by observing the associated change in [global state](dapp-dev-guide/installing-contracts/#querying-global-state). Depending on how your contract functions, this can have different meanings and results. If we use our donation contract from the [basic smart contract tutorial](dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust), the NCTL process would have the following flow:

Reviewer 3: 'global state' link doesn't work for me - gives 'Page Not Found' with 'http://localhost:3001/dapp-dev-guide/nctl-test/dapp-dev-guide/installing-contracts/#querying-global-state'

> 

Reviewer 3: 'basic smart contract tutorial' link doesn't work for me - gives 'Page Not Found' with 'http://localhost:3001/dapp-dev-guide/nctl-test/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust/'

- correct link seems - http://localhost:3001/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust/

## Getting Started with NCTL

Prior to testing a `Deploy` through NCTL, you should have the following steps accomplished:

1) [Installed the Casper client](../workflow/setup.md)

2) [Completed writing a Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust.md)

3) [Tested the Deploy](../dapp-dev-guide/testing.md) using the Casper testing framework

4) [Setup NCTL](../dapp-dev-guide/setup-nctl.md) on your system

## NCTL Verification Prior to Testing

Prior to attempting an NCTL test, you must verify that your local NCTL instance started correctly. Run the following command to view your current node status:

```
nctl-status
```

You should see five nodes `RUNNING` and five `STOPPED`. Further, verify that the node and user information propagated within the *casper-node/utils/assets* directory. Each node and user should have the associated `Keys` necessary to interact with the network.

## Installing the Smart Contract

> This document assumes that you setup your NCTL network using the standard settings in a directory called */casper/*.

Author: I've rectified this across the document to `/`

The command to send your `Deploy` should look similar to the following:

```
casper-client put-deploy \
--chain-name "casper-net-1" \
--secret-key ~/casper/casper-node/utils/nctl/assets/net-1/nodes/node-1/keys/secret_key.pem \
--payment-amount 2500000000 \
--session-path <PATH> \
--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc
```

The response will return something similar to the following information. Note the `deploy_hash`:

```
{
    "id": 4824893960188648146,
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "api_version": "1.0.0",
        "deploy_hash": "8e6309cc37bc58d8fedc1094ee1bd264a636d39fc0e05b5e1d72d98f7b6faf13"
    }
}
```

## Verifying Deploy Execution

The previous command sent the `Deploy` to the NCTL network, but we recommend verifying deploy execution before continuing. The `deploy_hash` received in the response allows you to query the `Deploy`'s status. 

To query the `Deploy`'s status, you will pass both the `deploy_hash` and the same `node-address` from above using the following command. This will return either an error message in the event of failure or the `Deploy` details if it succeeds.
```

> casper-client get-deploy 8e6309cc37bc58d8fedc1094ee1bd264a636d39fc0e05b5e1d72d98f7b6faf13 -n http://localhost:11101/rpc

Author: @TomVasile Would this be true for all uses within NCTL - such as for the put-deploy and get-account-info as well?

> casper-client get-deploy 8e6309cc37bc58d8fedc1094ee1bd264a636d39fc0e05b5e1d72d98f7b6faf13 -n http://localhost:11101/rpc

Reviewer 2: Correct, it applies everywhere.  Although using the installed client may work, there is no guarantee. It really depends on which version of the code base is checked out.

```
casper-client put-deploy \
--node-address http://localhost:11101/rpc \
--chain-name "casper-net-1" \
--payment-amount 500000000 \
--session-path <PATH> \
--session-arg "contract_key:key='hash-8c13aaeef50ae7f447ee21276965c31cfa45c4ea3abb03d35d078cdd6a40e4a'"
```

## Verifying Correct Contract Behavior

After calling your installed contract, you can verify that the contract behaved as expected by observing the associated change in [global state](/dapp-dev-guide/installing-contracts/#querying-global-state). Depending on how your contract functions, this can have different meanings and results. If we use our donation contract from the [basic smart contract tutorial](/dapp-dev-guide/writing-contracts/rust), the NCTL process would have the following flow:

1) Send a `Deploy` to install the "Donation" smart contract.

2) Verify the execution of the `Deploy`.

3) Interact with the installed contract using an additional `Deploy` that calls one or several of the entry points. For example, calling the `donate` entry point to donate an amount to the fundraising purse.

4) Verify the associated change in global state. Namely, an increase in the balance of the fundraising purse.

> ## Testing Contracts on the Casper Testnet

Reviewer 2: Nit: Just doesn't seem relevant to mention testing on Testnet in a doc about NCTL.
